---
output: pdf_document
---
# One Month Simulation: The Player/Developer's Guide

My project is a simulation game which players plan one month(31 days) of activities for the main charcter  
in the game. First I will explain roughly what the game is, then my general idea to implement it. I bold certain words because they are varibles, functions or objects in my implementation. 

Although I try to use this game to somewhat model the behavoir of the real world but I also realize a simple model is no where near accurate.

## **The Game**
Each day, the player has certain amount of **will power** that he(for convenience, I will only use "he" instead of "he or she") could use for several activies: 
* do homework
* play games
* (physical) exercise
* sleep early
* rest 

The **goal** of this game is to finish all the homework in 31 days, progressing from 0% to 100%. Each activity will consume a minimum amount of **will power** but the player can invest more **will power** for higer rewards. And the amount of rewarding attributes are determined by other attributes and a random variable generated from a uniform distribution with paraneter a, b. I don't specify parameters in this document because 1.developers(probably just me) can change them. 2.players should discover how the game works by themselves first. In short, holding everything else constant, performing **do homework** activity may increase the **Hw progress** ranging from 5 to 10 or 5 to 20. 

I will explain what each activity does:
### 1. do homework:
The **do homework** activity will increase the character's **homework progress** based on other variables:
* amount of **will power** invested 
* character's **competitiveness**

This actvity may *randomly* prompt an event that the character encounters a question that he does not know, then he will given the option to invest extra willpower to ask others for help. Investing extra will power will yield extra **homework progress**. 

### 2. play games
After selecting the **play games** activity, the player has the optional to invest more will power to become more engage in the games and receive more **competiveness** boost from the playing games activity.

### 3. (physical) exercise
The **physical exercise** activity should consume more **will power** for higher **health** points. While **health** is below a certain amount, performing **physical exercise** will bring the status fatigue, which will further decrease the character's willpower at current day. Higher **health** points can increase **base will power**. Note: Rewards from exercise does not subject to random factor.

### 4. sleep early and rest
The **rest** activity will increase the **day** by one, reseting the character's **will power** based on **health** and **sleep quality**, which can be boost by investing **will power** on the **sleeping early** activity. **Sleep early** activity does not activate the **rest** activity. Note: Rewards from sleeping early does not subject to random factor.

## Evil Mode
Like I said early, this game tries to mimic the behavior of the world. Players should trade his or her personal willpower into the willpower generated by the character.
Under Evil Mode, at the beginning of each day, player himself has to unlock the each willpower regenerated by answering a certain amount of arithmetic questions(addition for numbers under 1000).





